=head1 NAME

Toolchartic - Perl resource-access infrastructure for Toolchartic tools

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Toolchartic qw(
    infile
    cr_eval_with_rg
    cr_file_eval_with_rg
    shell_captr
    shell_qt
    shell_quote
    cr_resloc
    cr_home_refresh
    cr_settings
  );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Toolchartic provides Perl utility functions for loading files,
evaluating Perl code stored in strings or files when that code returns
code references, constructing or executing Unix-shell command strings,
and locating toolchain-specific resources.

=head1 BACKWARD COMPATIBILITY

For the project's backward-compatibility policy, see the section
"Backward Compatibility Policy" in F<README.md>.

In brief: interfaces present in the most recent stable release are
intended to remain backward-compatible, while things added only in
developer releases may still change before the next stable release.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 cr_home_refresh

  cr_home_refresh();

Refreshes the module's stored value for the current user's home
directory.

If the C<HOME> environment variable is defined and nonempty, that value
is used.

Otherwise, the home directory is taken from C<(getpwuid($<))[7]>.

=head2 infile

  my $text = infile($pathname);

Loads the contents of a file into a Perl string.

If called with no arguments, returns C<undef>.

If the file cannot be opened, returns the empty string.

=head2 cr_eval_with_rg

  my $result = cr_eval_with_rg($code_string, @args);

Takes as its first argument a Perl string to be evaluated with C<eval>.

Any additional arguments are passed to the code reference returned by
that C<eval>.

If the C<eval> does not return a code reference, returns C<undef>.

Otherwise, returns whatever is returned by the generated code
reference.

=head2 cr_file_eval_with_rg

  my $result = cr_file_eval_with_rg($pathname, @args);

Loads a file with C<infile>, evaluates its contents by way of C<cr_eval_with_rg>,
and, if a code reference results, invokes that code reference with any
remaining arguments.

If called with no arguments, returns C<undef>.

If the file cannot be loaded, or if the C<eval> does not return a code
reference, returns C<undef>.

Otherwise, returns whatever is returned by the generated code
reference.

=head2 shell_captr

  my $output = shell_captr(@args);

Builds a shell command string from its arguments by way of
C<shell_qt>, executes that command with backticks, chomps the trailing
newline from the captured output, and returns the resulting string.

=head2 shell_qt

  my $command = shell_qt(@args);

Builds a shell command string by quoting each argument with
C<shell_quote> and separating the resulting quoted arguments with
spaces.

The returned string begins and ends with a blank space.

=head2 shell_quote

  my $quoted = shell_quote($string);

Quotes a single string for use as one Unix-shell argument.

Undefined values and empty strings are rendered as C<''>.

Embedded single quotes are converted to the standard shell-safe
sequence used for representing a literal single quote inside a
single-quoted shell string.

=head2 cr_resloc

  my $pathname = cr_resloc($type, $relative_path, @restrictions);

Searches for a toolchain-specific resource and returns its pathname if found.

The first argument is the resource type.  At present, C<f> means a file
and C<d> means a directory.

The second argument is the resource's relative path beneath each
candidate resource directory.

Any additional arguments may be array references specifying extra
search restrictions.  Any argument that is not an array reference is
ignored by the extra-test phase.

If the module's auto-refresh setting is on, C<cr_home_refresh> is
called before the search begins.

If the environment variable C<CARTOVANTA_RES_PATH> is defined, its
colon-separated directory list is searched first.

After that, the function searches the default user-specific resource
directory:

  $_homedir/local/cartovanta-res

If the resource is still not found, the function searches the default
systemwide resource directory:

  /usr/local/cartovanta-res

The function returns the pathname of the first matching resource that
passes the implemented checks.

If no acceptable match is found, it returns C<undef>.

=head2 cr_settings

  my $ok = cr_settings(\%settings);

Adjusts settings for the Toolchartic library.

Its first argument must be a hash reference.

If the first argument is not a hash reference, the function returns
C<0>.

At present, the recognized setting is C<refresh>.

If C<refresh> is present and true, automatic refreshing of the stored
home directory is turned on.

If C<refresh> is present and false, automatic refreshing of the stored
home directory is turned off.

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright 2026 Sophia Elizabeth Shapira

This library is free software; you may redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

See the F<LICENSE> file for the full license text.

=cut
